# Blue Magic : Milestone 3

## Revisions to Prior Work

- Gathering Informations

  - Added specific methodology term for gathering information, and explained the reasoning for why it was a good choice.

- Problems

  - We are revising the problem section because we did not initially list out all the problems, and then choose a main problem from that list. The motivation behind this is for us to able to see a broad perspective of problems our users experience, and then narrow it down to one main problem in which we will tackle in our web application. Specifically, we included other problems discovered such as payment, spatial issues, and parking. We ultimately decided that transportation is the key problem we would like to focus on in our application.

- Value Propositions

  - Included the costs and barriers of users adopting our application rather than other alternatives (i.e. The actual website for Ithaca's Farmers Market). This is extremely important as the costs and barriers of an application often dictate whether a user decides to continue engaging with it.

- Scenarios
  - Modified the scenarios so that the respective persona has relevance

## Persuasive Design Approach

- Approach:
  - Our persuasive design approach involves engaging users with the application as much as possible through the
    use of an impact system. Because the main feature of our application will be a blog-like system, we aim
    to create a community where users can convene and engage with one another in regards to the Farmers
    Market. Specifically, users who often react, comment, or post will accumulate more points, which
    can be tracked in the profile section of the application.
- Behavior Trying to Influence:
  - Not only do we want to address the key issue of transportation for our target users, but we also
    would like to create an open space where users of our application see it as a collaborative, helpful
    and friendly environment to be a part of. When looking at our key problem, we are attempting to
    improve it through using a small community that is able to help one another out. Moreover, the
    gamification feaure of having an impact system may also function as a feature that prompts users
    to engage with the application frequently in effort to receive more points on their profile.
- How our design accomplishes our target behavior:
  - Without any rewards or actual direct benefits, our impact system would not be as effective. As a result, to accomplish our target behavior, we will award users with various prizes (e.g. discounts off next purchase) if they reach a certain threshold of points, comments or reacts.

## Brainstorming

- Initial idea: app that shows basic transportation option information and provides a forum for people to talk about transportation and coordinate it
  - Badge for top contributors
  - Categories for posts
    - Looking for ridesharing
    - Transport advice
    - Deals and special vendors
    - safety/info announcements
    - Community event/gathering
- More ideas
  - Recommended routes you could walk or bike down with QR codes you can scan along the way so if you show you walked down you get points or a badge or it contributes to leaderboard or something?
    - Could get a discount at the market
    - Or get badge for forum
  - Easy way to limebike as opposed to google maps, simplified with an arrow that always points you towards the market
  - A ridesharing app that if you take a picture showing you gave a ride/took a ride with someone else, you get points (to tackle the issue of parking)
  - An app that tracks your carbon footprint based on what mode of transportation you use (i.e car, bike) and you can see the environmental impact you are having
  - An app that demonstrates the background/contact info of all vendors of the Ithaca Farmers Market and allows users to favorite booths and turn on suggestions by inputting preferences on what the user hopes to get out of the market - Also has a newsfeed tab that informs users if there are performances, specials, deals
  - Information app with character select in a video game and you select your mode of transportation and it gives you more information and helpful tidbits
    - Even if you drive, it shows you where else you could park etc
    - General idea: selectively show info based on what the user wants to do
      - Might need incentive to contribute to tips
      - Reducing barriers to accessing information
  - If we’re going to include any aspects of ridesharing, make sure either its in a separate place or there’s some way to communicate w/o publicly sharing one’s phone number
    - Might create the barrier of needing an account to use the app
    - Extra step turns potential users away
    - Safety issue of publicly posting information
    - Verification via location
  - Exchanging money for services might raise issues
  - People want other ways of getting there besides getting a ride
- Forum part specifically
  - Similarities to reddit, users who make positive and helpful contributions have more recognition. Can include levels in terms of how reputable a person is (e.g. Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced)
  - Post categories (see above)
  - Event making, sponsored by local groups on campus or in the larger Ithaca community
  - Place to post updates, advice
  - Tagging people, tagging/pinning posts
    - Giving advice based on post tags
  - Way to find accurate information in a collaborative setting
    - Information beyond written info,
    - Photos/maps
    - Representation of feedback
  - Event promotions vs event discussions
    - People sharing things they’ve personally noticed
  - Don’t want to constrict the forum
    - Daily/timely updates

## Sketches

#### Sketches from Neha

[sketch 1](m3_images/sketches/sketch1.jpeg)
[sketch 2](m3_images/sketches/sketch2.jpeg)

#### Sketches from Nick

[sketch 1](m3_images/sketches/nickSketch1.jpg)
- This is a walking directions app, which charts out a walking route and rewards the user for walking long distances


[sketch 2](m3_images/sketches/nickSketch2.jpg)
- This app functions simmilarly, but is designed for bike riders, having them take pictures with qr codes to confirm their progress along a given bike route to the marker.


[sketch 3](m3_images/sketches/nickSketch3.jpg)
- This app constructs a community forum for a given day of the farmer's market, posts are listed in chronological order and anyone can respond to a given post

[sketch 4](m3_images/sketches/nickSketch4.jpg)
- A simmilar sort of forum, but posts are grouped into advice and questions to help organize people's needs


[sketch 5](m3_images/sketches/nickSketch5.jpg)
- This sketch represents a rideshare app where people can coordinate carpools to the farmer's market 

#### Sketches from Joe

[Home Page With Topic Tabs](m3_images/sketches/home_page_tabs.jpeg)

[Blog Posts from Home Page w/ Topic Tabs](m3_images/sketches/)

[Home Page Map Design](m3_images/sketches/home_page_map_design.jpeg)

[Map Design Drop Down](m3_images/sketches/map_design_drop_down.jpeg)

[Blog Page w/ Rewards](m3_images/sketches/blog_page_with_rewards.jpeg)

[Rewards Screen After Redeeming](m3_images/sketches/rewards_screen.jpeg)

#### Sketches from Zoe

[Zoe's Sketches](m3_images/sketches/zoe-sketches.jpg)

- These sketches explore different ways to integrate transportation information and the community forum idea.

### Paper Prototype Images

[Image 1](m3_images/proto1.jpg)

[Image 2](m3_images/proto2.jpg)

[Image 3](m3_images/proto3.jpg)

[Image 4](m3_images/proto4.jpg)

[Image 5](m3_images/proto5.jpg)

[Image 6](m3_images/proto6.jpg)

[Image 7](m3_images/proto7.jpg)

[Image 8](m3_images/proto8.jpg)


### Paper Prototype Evaluation

For the complete list of tested scenarios check out: [MileStone 2](m-2.md)

### User Test 1

- Interviewer: Viri G
- Participant: Senior Cornell physics student who lives on campus
- Interview notes: [here](userTests/test1.md)
- Takeaways:
  - Include a way to navigate back to the landing page

#### User Test 2

- Interviewer: Nick M
- Participant: Junior Cornell infosci student who lives on campus
- Interview notes: [here](userTests/test2.md)
- Takeaways:
  - Redesign the landing page so users know
  - Think about clarity of options on the general information page

#### User Test 3

- Interviewer: Nick M
- Participant: Senior Cornell student who lives off campus
- Interview notes: [here](userTests/test3.md)
- Takeaway:
  - Add more options to the general information page

## Final Sketches

[Final Sketch](m3_images/sketches/finalsketch.jpg)

## Rationale

Our app's design is based on a community forum primarily for transportation to the market. We wanted to provide an area where people can get basic info on bus routes, ridesharing, and alternative transportation methods while also adding a forum element where people of the community can contribute and help each other. Ithaca Farmers Market is such a staple to this community and we really want to emphasize that community aspect in our design.

The key issue we identified in our previous milestone is transportation, especially for those that are not local to Ithaca. Therefore by providing a space where both locals and non-locals can communicate and help each other regarding transportation, we hope to resolve this issue. We also have gameified our app with the addition of rewards based on contribution to the app. This will influence the user to participate in the app and further encourage people to help each other.

Our final designs provides a solution for all the scenarios that we mentioned in our previous milestone. In terms of finding a good TCAT route, our design has a whole section dedicated solely to the bus system and the best route to take to get to the market. The second scenario is about walking routes and there is a section dedicated to the best trails and walking routes to take to the market. The third scenario is about wanting to spread the word on alternative places to park which is resolved by our forum which allows users to post about the parking and use the "parking" tag so people using the app are aware. The fourth scenario is about finding cheap ways of getting to the market which can also be resolved through the forum section of our app which allows uers to communicate with each other and provide helpful suggestions on the best and most affordable way to get to the market.
